.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.IX Title Tranalyzer2 1
.TH TRANALYZER2 1 "July 2018" "0.8.0" "Tranalyzer2 (Anteater)"

.SH NAME
Tranalyzer2 \- High performance flow based network traffic analyzer

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tranalyzer
[\ \fB\-r\fR\ \fIpcap\fR | \fB\-R\fR \fIfile\fR | \fB\-D\fR \fIexpr[:schr][,stop]\fR | \fB\-i\fR\ \fIiface\fR\ ] \" input
.br
.ti +11
[\ \fB\-w\fR\ \fIprefix\fR | \fB\-W\fR\ \fIprefix[:size][,start]\fR \] \" output
.br
.ti +11
[\ \fB\-p\fR\ \fIpath\fR\ ]
.br
.ti +11
[\ \fB\-b\fR\ \fIfile\fR\ ]
.br
.ti +11
[\ \fB\-e\fR\ \fIfile\fR\ ]
.br
.ti +11
[\ \fB\-f\fR\ \fIhashfactor\fR\ ]
.br
.ti +11
[\ \fB\-c\fR\ \fIcpu\fR\ ]
.br
.ti +11
[\ \fB\-x\fR\ \fIid\fR\ ]
.br
.ti +11
[\ \fB\-s\fR\ ]
.br
.ti +11
[\ \fB\-l\fR\ ]
.br
.ti +11
[\ \fB\-F\fR\ \fIfile\fR\ ]
.br
.ti +11
[\ \fIbpf\fR\ ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBTranalyzer2\fR analyzes a PCAP file \fIpcap\fR, processes a list of PCAP files listed in \fIfile\fR or captures traffic from a given interface \fIinterface\fR. Output is written to files with prefix \fIprefix\fR or to the standard output if \fB\-w\fR is omitted.

.SH INPUT OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR\ \fIinterface\fR
.br
Listen on \fIinterface\fR.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR\ \fIpcap\fR
Read packets from PCAP file \fIpcap\fR or from standard input if \fIpcap\fR is "-".
.TP
\fB\-R\fR\ \fIfile\fR
Process every PCAP file listed in \fIfile\fR.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR\ \fIexpr[:schr][,stop]\fR
Process every PCAP file whose name matches \fIexpr\fR, up to an optional last index \fIstop\fR.
If \fIstop\fR is omitted, then Tranalyzer never stops.
\fIexpr\fR can be a filename, e.g., file.pcap0, or an expression, such as "dump*.pcap00", where the star matches anything (note the quotes to prevent the shell from interpreting the expression).
\fIschr\fR can be used to specify the last character before the index.
.SH OUTPUT OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-w\fR\ \fIprefix\fR
Append \fIprefix\fR to any output file produced. If omitted, then output is diverted to \fIstdout\fR.
.br
.TP
\fB\-W\fR\ \fIprefix[:size][,start]\fR
Like \fB-w\fR, but fragment flow files according to \fIsize\fR, producing files starting with index \fIstart\fR.
\fIsize\fR can be specified in bytes (default), KB ('K'), MB ('M') or GB ('G').
Scientific notation, i.e., 1e5 or 1E5 (=100000), can be used as well.
If a 'f' is appended, e.g., 10Kf, then \fIsize\fR denotes the number of flows.
.br
.TP
.B \-l
Prints end report in \fIprefix\fR_log.txt instead of stdout
.br
.TP
.B \-s
Activates forensics packet mode. This results in a special packet based output file. (Currently produced by tcpFlags plugin)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fR\ \fIpath\fR
Load plugins from \fIpath\fR instead of ~/.tranalyzer/plugins/
.br
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fIfile\fR
Use white-/black-list \fIfile\fR to control loading of plugins (default: plugin_folder/plugin_blacklist.txt)
.br
.TP
\fB\-e\fR\ \fIfile\fR
Extracts all flows listed in \fIfile\fR from the input PCAP file and writes them in a new PCAP file. Requires the pcapd plugin.
.br
.TP
\fB\-f\fR\ \fIhashfactor\fR
Sets hash multiplication factor.
.br
.TP
\fB\-x\fR\ \fIid\fR
Tranalyzer2 is in sensor mode and requires a sensor ID \fIid\fR.
.br
.TP
\fB\-c\fR\ \fIcpu\fR
Binds Tranalyzer2 to core number \fIcpu\fR. If \fIcpu\fR is 0, then the operating system selects the core to bind.
.br
.TP
\fB\-F\fR\ \fIfile\fR
Read BPF filter from \fIfile\fR.
.br
.TP
.I bpf
Berkeley Packet Filter syntax as in tcpdump.

.SH FILES
.I ~/.tranalyzer/plugins/
.RS
Default plugins folder.

.SH EXIT STATUS
\fBTranalyzer2\fR returns 0 on success. Any different value is an indication of error.

.SH AUTHORS
.B Tranalyzer2
was written by Stefan Burschka, Benoit Dupasquier and Torben Ruehl
.SH BUGS
Please send problems, bugs, questions and suggestions to:
.ti +24
\fItranalyzer@rdit.ch\fR

.SH DISTRIBUTION
The latest version of \fBTranalyzer2\fR can be found at
.ti +22
\fIhttps://tranalyzer.com\fR

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIawk\fR(1), \fIbpf\fR(2), \fIdumpcap\fR(1), \fIeditcap\fR(1), \fImergecap\fR(1), \fIpcap\fR(3PCAP), \fIpcap-linktype\fR(7), \fIpcap-savefile\fR(5), \fItcpdump\fR(8), \fItext2pcap\fR(1), \fItshark\fR(1).

The full documentation for \fBTranalyzer2\fR is available at

.ti +6
.I https://tranalyzer.com/downloads/doc/documentation.pdf
